So now that we have Python and VS Code set up, the next thing that we have to do is set
up our virtual environment.
Before we do that, we have to actually talk about what our virtual environments and what
problems do they try to address.
So let me give you a little bit of an example scenario of the issue that we can run into
when working with specific packages within Python on your local machine.
So let's say that we created a project and this project is called project one.
And what we need to do is we need to install FastAPI version 1.2.1.
So what do we do?
We need to install version 1.2.1 on our machine so that we can actually
use that version.
Now, let's say later down the road, we start a new project called project two.
And let's say this version requires us to run FastAPI version 2.4.3
because we want to try out some of the newer features.
Well, at this point, if we need to try out a newer version, we have to upgrade FastAPI
to version 2.4.3 on our local machine.
And this may or may not be a problem, it really just depends on if version 2.4.3 is backwards compatible with version 1.2.1.
Because if version 2.4.3 has breaking changes, then ultimately, that's
going to create issues with our project one because that project expects us to run version
1.2.1.
And so if we can upgrade, well, we're in a little bit of a pickle because one project
needs one version, the other project needs another version, we can have two different
versions installed on our machine.
So what exactly do we do?
Well, this is where virtual environments come into play.
So with virtual environments, let's say we want to create a project.
So we create project one, and what we do is we create a virtual environment, call it whatever
you want.
And so this is an isolated environment that will not affect any other environments.
And within this environment, we can install any Python packages, running whatever version
we want, and it's completely isolated to this project.
And so when we create a second project, what we can do is we can create its very own virtual
environment as well, we'll call it virtual environment two.
And within this virtual environment, we can install any version of any package that we
want.
So then we can install version 2.4.3.
And so both of these virtual environments are completely separated, completely isolated
from one another.
And so we can essentially install multiple different versions of a single package for
each of our projects.
And that way, our projects don't end up stepping on the toes of other projects.
And so now that we have a basic understanding of virtual environments, let's go ahead and
figure out how we can actually create our first virtual environment and use it within
our project.